#Test 6

## Q1 802.11 and BER
- `R = 11Mb/s`
- framesize `S = 65 bytes = 520 bits` (including headers, preambles, trailers)
- bit error rate `E = 1e-7`
- ? packets damaged per second?
  - packets per second: `N = R/S = 11e6 / 520 1/sec = 21154`
  - packet not damaged `Pok = (1-E)^S = (1 - 1e-7)^520`
  - packet damaged `Pdmg = 1 - Pok = 1 - (1 - 1e-7)^520`
  - packets damaged per second: `N * Pdmg = 21154 * (1 - (1 - 1e-7)^520) = 1.0999794547058384`
- ANSWER `approx. 1`

## Q2 802.11 MAC
- 802.11b station always reserves channelwidth with RTS/CTS sequences
- wants to transmit `DATA = 1000bytes = 8000 bit`
- all other stations are idle at that time
- ignore propagation delay and bit errors
- ? How long does it take to transmit the frame and receive the ack, relative to SIFS/DIFS ?
  - 802.11b rate `R=11Mb/s = 11e6`
  - DIFS, RTS, SIFS, CTS, SIFS, DATA, SIFS, ACK
  - `t = 1*DIFS + 3*SIFS + (CTS+RTS+DATA+ACK)/R`
  - size of CTS, RTS and ACK is 256 bits each, that also has to be added to the data-packet.
- ANSWER `t = DIFS+3SIFS+9020bits/R = DIFS+3SIFS + 820 microsec`

## Q3 Encryption keys
- `N` people communicate all with each other (everyone with `N-1`)
- Everyone can read all communications
- No one shall be able to decrypt someone else's communication
- ? How many keys are required in the whole system?
  - `N*(N-1)/2` because everyone is talking to everyone, but each connection needs only one and not two keys (bidirectional)
- ? Suppose that public key encryption is used. How many keys are required in this case?
  - `2N`, for each Client there is one PAIR of keys: the public and the private

## Q4 IP mobility
- Mobile IPv4
- Host moves to subnet A `130.237.42.0/28`
- ? Assign IP in subnet A. `.1 .3-13, .14` are blocked by router,hosts,router
  - subnet gives `2**4 = 16 IPs`, `2` for name/Broadcast, `14` for hosts
  - `13` are used, one is left for our client
  - ANSWER `130.237.42.2`
- ? A host `CH` somewhere sets up a two-way com session with `MH`. Which Dest-IP will `CH` use?
  - The one of MH's static IP in the homenetwork. The `HA`(in the router) will notice and forward to the `FA`
  - ANSWER `111.112.113.44`
- ? Which source address will be used in IP packets generated by MH when tunneling is used?
  - The IP of the `HA`.
  - ANSWER `111.112.113.1`
- ANSWER `1: 130.237.42.2; 2: 111.112.113.44; 3: 111.112.113.1`

## Q5 Public key encryption
- RSA
- `n = p*q = 33`
- `p=3`
- `q=11`
- `Phi(33) = (p-1)(q-1) = 2*10 = 20`
- `e=9`
- `e*d mod 20 = 1`
  - `d = 9`, `e*d mod 20 = 81 mod 20 = 1`
- encode `hello` = `8 5 12 12 13`
  - `8**e mod 33 = 29` ... `29 20 12 12 3`
  - decrypt `29**d mod 33 = 8` ...
- ? what is the resulting codeword?
- ANSWER `29 20 12 12 3` 
  
## Q6 RTP
- `4` users sending packets into the same multicast address at `100kb/s`
- ? To what rate RTCP will limit its traffic?
- ? How much of RTCP bandwidth will be allocated to a particular receiver?
- ? How much of RTCP bandwidth will be allocated to a particular sender?
- 1. RTCP will limit its traffic:		
  -	Session bandwidth `4*100kbps = 400 kbps`		
  -	RTCP limits its traffic to `5%` of the session bandwidth		
  -	then (`0.05 * 400`) is the rate that RTCP will limit its traffic.		
  -		`= 20 kbps `	
- 2. RTCP bandwidth will be allocated to a particular receiver:		
  -	Each user is both sender & receiver where each one gets **20kbps** for RTCP packets as calculated		
  -	protocol gives 25% to the sender		
  - `= 20 * 0.25	= 5 kbps`		
- 3. RTCP bandwidth will be allocated to a particular sender:		
  -	protocol gives `75%` to the receiver		
  -	`= 20 * 0.75 = 25 kbps`	
  -	* one sender then will remain `N-1 = 3` users as receivers		
  -	`= 15 kbps / 3 -> 5 kbps for receivers`
- ANSWER `20kbps, 5kbps, 5kbps`

## Q7 True false
1. [x] **true** Ethernet and 802.11 use same frame structure
  - though 802.11 uses several addresses, while Ether has only 2
2. [x] **true** Bluetooth devices may interfere with WiFi Networks
  - theyre both using 2.4GHz as does ZigBee, ISM, Amateur radio, video senders...
3. [ ] **false** WiFi is a narrowband technology
  - its 100MHz in width and uses Broadband. Narrowband is limited to ~64kbps
4. [ ] **false** Before a 802.11 station transmits a data frame, it must first send and receive RTS/CTS
  - first CTS, then RTS. But only for large Data frames, often never at all S.537
5. [ ] **false** the pysical layer of WLAN and 3G tech uses CDMA
  - WLAN uses CSMA/CA (Carrier Sense Multiple Access, Collision Avoidance), 3G CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access)
6. [x] **true** RTS/CTS reduces the useful throughput in a wireless network
  - but it also increases it if there would be collisions **true/false**
7. [ ] **FALSE** As a mobile node gets farther and farther away from a base station, the base station could take two actions to minimize the loss probability of a transmitted frame: reduce the transmission power and increase the transmission rate.
  - these actions both increase the probability to loose it. Someone is far away, so talk quieter and faster so that he understand you better? 
8. [x] **false** MAC for WiFi is based on CSMA/CD
  - the technology is just in development, but right now it's not really possible to send and listen and notice other signals
9. [ ] **false** In the infrastructure mode of two WIFI enabled computers may communicate directly with each other if they are located in the common communication range
  - If it is `multihop infrastructure mode`. Nodes far away from the base station may relay their communication through other nodes. they don't really communicate
10. [ ] **false** If stored video is streamed directly from a Web server to a media player then the application is using TCP as the underlying transport protocol
11. [x] **true** In differentiated services, while per-hop behavior defines differences in performance amongst classes, it does not mandate any particular mechanism for achieving these performances.
12. [x] **true** RSVP is for signaling quality requirements of media sessions to the intermediate routers
  - Resource reSerVation Protocol
13. [ ] **false** Consider sending a stream of packets from Host A to Host B using IPsec. Typically a new SA will be established for each packet sent in the stream.
  - For each direction of transmission there has to be one SA (Security Association, simplex), but it can be used for several packets.
14. [ ] **false** Suppose certifier.com creates a certificate fro foo.com. Typically the entire certificate would be encrypted with certifier.com's public key.
  - should be the private key
15. [ ] **false** Digitally signing an e-mail means encrypting its entire content with the private key of the sender
  - For signing you only add an encrypted hash of the message.








